# Digital-Catalog
  I created a digital catalog in java using the fundamental concepts of OOP: inheritance, polymorphism, asbtraction, encapsulation. In the implementation of the project I used multiple *design patterns* in order to better ilustrate the purpose of each used class. Some of the design patterns used are: Singletone, Factory, Builder, Observer, Strategy.
# How it works
  There is a single **Catalog** class which contains a lsit of **Course** type objects and methods used to add or remove courses. The abstract class **Course** contains multiple information about a course like: a professor, multiple assistants, groups of students, grades etc. and also add and get methods. The class **User** is inharited by all the "members" who use the catalog: Student, Parent, Assistant, Teacher. The application allows parents to subscribe to the catalog in order to receive notifications when their child is graded by a teacher or assistant. This is achieved using the Observer design pattern and creating a **Notification** class. By employing the Visitor design pattern, I  implemented the functionality where each assistant can fill in the ongoing grades of the students, and each teacher can enter the exam grades for their students. For this purpose, I used the following two interfaces: Element and Visitor. Finaly using the Memento design patter I also introduced a way to backup the current grades.
# User Interface
  The application also has a graphic user interface made in swing, that has 3 pages. The student page where the list of courses a student is enrolled in can be viewed. The page allows the selection of a course to display additional information: the main teacher for the course, the list of assistants for that course, the specific assistant assigned to the student, and the grades received by the student in that course. The teacher/assistant page is created for teachers/assistants to display all the courses they teach and the list of grades they need to validate. Moreover, a button was added to validate the grades of the student/assistant (calling methods from the **ScoreVisitor** class). The parent profile page was developed to showcase the details of the notifications, about new grades, that they have received.
  
  
